Parallelism

In most Scratch creations a certain level of parallelism is required. But what is the parallelism? Parallelism is the possibility that several things happen simultaneously. For example, when two characters perform an action at the same time, or when one character does several things at once.

[0 points]


The most basic and most obvious way to achieve parallelism is to have several programs that start with “When green flag clicked”:

Thus, when the user clicks on the green flag, all programs that start with this block would begin to run concurrently, or in parallel, as can also be said. You could have several programs that start with this block in the same sprite, if you want that object to do several things at once; or you could place that block in programs of different characters, if you want all of them to undertake an action when the project begins its execution.

[1 points]

Another way to achieve parallelism in your program is by getting several things occur when the user presses a key or clicks on an object. Consider a couple of examples:

How these blocks work?

In the first instance, on the left, we see two different characters that perform a certain action when a key is pressed. Therefore, when the user presses a key, in this case, both the cat and the child simultaneously executed "say A for 2 seconds."

In the second example we see that a character has two programs that start with "when this sprite clicked”. Therefore, when the user clicks on this character, both programs will begin to run at the same time, in parallel.

[2 points]

There are several events that allow to achieve parallelism:

As can be seen, you could create several programs that began to be executed when switching the stage to a certain backdrop, or when they receive a particular message, or when the volume of the room exceeds a certain threshold, when the video motion is greater than a concrete number of pixels, or when the timer has exceeded the value you want. Therefore, there are many possibilities to make things happen in your programs simultaneously. Feel like trying some of them?

